DOC/Methods-Extern.md, before:

7-Zip external method IDs, that are not included to 7-Zip
---------------------------------------------------------


History of this document
------------------------

- see https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd/commits/master/DOC/Methods-Extern.md


Overview of defined ID ranges
-----------------------------

ID       | Codec, Author                | 7-Zip Plugin Author
---------|------------------------------|----------------------
F7 0x xx | reserved                     |
F7 10 xx | LZHAM, Rich Geldreich        | Rich Geldreich
F7 11 01 | ZStandard, Yann Collet       | Tino Reichardt
F7 11 02 | Brotli, Google               | Tino Reichardt
F7 11 04 | LZ4, Yann Collet             | Tino Reichardt
F7 11 05 | LZ5, Przemyslaw Skibinski    | Tino Reichardt
F7 11 06 | Lizard, Przemyslaw Skibinski | Tino Reichardt


Range F7 10 xx - LZHAM
-----------------------

Description:
Lossless is a data compression codec with LZMA-like ratios but 1.5x-8x faster
decompression speed.

License:
LZHAM library is provided as open source software using the MIT license.

7-Zip Container Header:
``` C
 Byte _ver;
 Byte _dict_size;
 Byte _level;
 Byte _flags;
 Byte _reserved[1];
```

Algorithm author: Rich Geldreich
- Homepage: https://github.com/richgel999/lzham_codec
- Source:   https://github.com/richgel999/lzham_codec

Codec plugin author: Rich Geldreich
- Homepage: http://richg42.blogspot.com/2015/11/lzham-custom-codec-plugin-for-7-zip.html
- Source:   https://github.com/richgel999/lzham_codec_devel


Range F7 11 01, ZStandard
-------------------------

Description:
Zstandard is a real-time compression algorithm, providing high compression
ratios. It offers a very wide range of compression / speed trade-off, while
being backed by a very fast decoder.

License:
Zstandard library is provided as open source software using the BSD license.

7-Zip Container Header:
``` C
 Byte _ver_major; // currently 1
 Byte _ver_minor; // currently 1
 Byte _level;     // currently 1..22
 Byte _reserved[2];
```
- this header holds some information about the version, which was
  used for creating that 7-Zip container data
- _ver_major should contain the major release of zstd
- _ver_minor should contain the major release of zstd
- _level should contain the level, the data is packed with
- the other two bytes should be set to zero currently and are
  reserved for future use

Algorithm author: Yann Collet
- Homepage: https://facebook.github.io/zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/facebook/zstd

Codec plugin author: Tino Reichardt
- Homepage: https://mcmilk.de/projects/7-Zip-zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd

Modes:
- threading is supported through skippable frame id 0x184D2A50U
- all levels are supported (1..22)
- future versions of zstd will support multithreading out of the box
  - this new format is fully compatible with the one within this codec
- the codec is used as archiv handler also, see ZstdHandler.cpp
  - this handler is does not use any additional headers, it supports the plain
    zstd v1.0 format
  - when compiled with ZSTD_LEGACY_SUPPORT, then support is increased to these
    addtional version numbers of zstd: v0.1 up v0.7
- future formats of this algorithm will be fully compatible with release v1.0
  of ZStandard (ZStandard 0.8 == ZStandard 1.0)
- one ID should be okay for this codec

Versions:
The 7-Zip codec will be kept in sync with the current releases of ZStandard.


Range F7 11 02, Brotli
----------------------

Description:
Brotli is a generic-purpose lossless compression algorithm that compresses
data using a combination of a modern variant of the LZ77 algorithm, Huffman
coding and 2nd order context modeling, with a compression ratio comparable to
the best currently available general-purpose compression methods. It is
similar in speed with deflate but offers more dense compression.

License:
The Brotli library is provided as open source software using the MIT license.

7-Zip Container Header (3 bytes):
``` C
 Byte _ver_major; // currently 0
 Byte _ver_minor; // currently 6
 Byte _level;     // currently 1..11 (Brotli quality)
```
- this header holds some information about the version, which was
  used for creating that 7-Zip container data
- _ver_major should contain the major release of brotli
- _ver_minor should contain the major release of brotli
- _level should contain the level, the data is packed with

Algorithm author: Google Staff
- Homepage: https://brotli.org/
- Source:   https://github.com/google/brotli

Codec plugin author: Tino Reichardt
- Homepage: https://mcmilk.de/projects/7-Zip-zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd

Modes:
- threading is supported through skippable frame id 0x184D2A50U
- all levels are supported (1..11)
- one ID should be okay for this codec

Versions:
The 7-Zip codec will be kept in sync with the current releases of Brotli.


Range F7 11 04, LZ4
-------------------

Description:
LZ4 is lossless compression algorithm, providing compression speed at 400 MB/s
per core (0.16 Bytes/cycle). It features an extremely fast decoder, with speed
in multiple GB/s per core (0.71 Bytes/cycle). A high compression derivative,
called LZ4_HC, is available, trading customizable CPU time for compression
ratio.

License:
LZ4 library is provided as open source software using the BSD license.

7-Zip Container Header:
``` C
 Byte _ver_major;  // currently 1
 Byte _ver_minor;  // currently 7
 Byte _level;      // 1..12
 Byte _reserved[2];
```
- this header holds some information about the version, which was
  used for creating that 7-Zip container data
- _ver_major should contain the major release of LZ4
- _ver_minor should contain the major release of LZ4
- _level should contain the level, the data is packed with
- the other two bytes should be set to zero currently and are
  reserved for future use

Algorithm author: Yann Collet
- Homepage: https://lz4.github.io/lz4/
- Source:   https://github.com/lz4/lz4

Codec plugin author: Tino Reichardt
- Homepage: https://mcmilk.de/projects/7-Zip-zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd

Modes:
- threading is supported through skippable frame id 0x184D2A50U
- all levels of LZ4 v1.7.4 are supported (1..16)
- the codec is used as archiv handler also, see Lz4Handler.cpp
  - this handler is does not use any additional headers
  - it supports the plain LZ4 v1.7.4 format (this covers all current lz4
    implemetations)
- future formats of this algorithm should be fully compatible with current
  release
- one ID should be okay for this codec

Versions:
The 7-Zip codec will be kept in sync with the current releases of LZ4.


Range F7 11 05, LZ5
-------------------

Description:
LZ5 is a modification of LZ4 which gives a better ratio at cost of slower
compression and decompression.

License:
LZ5 library is provided as open source software using the BSD license.

7-Zip Container Header:
``` C
 Byte _ver_major;  // currently 1
 Byte _ver_minor;  // currently 5
 Byte _level;      // 1..15
 Byte _reserved[2];
```
- this header holds some information about the version, which was used for
  creating that 7-Zip container data
- _ver_major should contain the major release of LZ5
- _ver_minor should contain the major release of LZ5
- _level should contain the level, the data is packed with
- the other two bytes should be set to zero currently and are reserved for
  future use

Algorithm author: Przemyslaw Skibinski
- Homepage: https://github.com/inikep/lz5
- Source:   https://github.com/inikep/lz5

Codec plugin author: Tino Reichardt
- Homepage: https://mcmilk.de/projects/7-Zip-zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd

Modes:
- threading is supported through skippable frame id 0x184D2A50U
- all levels of v1.5 are supported, which means: 1..15
- the codec is used as archiv handler also, see Lz5Handler.cpp
  - this handler is does not use any additional headers, it supports the plain
    lz5 v1.5 format
- future formats of this algorithm will not follow
- one ID should be okay for this codec

Versions:
The 7-Zip LZ5 codec will be frozen to v1.5 of this codec. No updates are planned.

Range F7 11 06, Lizard
----------------------

Description:
Lizard is an efficient compressor with very fast decompression. It achieves
compression ratio that is comparable to zip/zlib and zstd/brotli (at low and
medium compression levels) at decompression speed of 1000 MB/s and faster.

License:
Lizard library is provided as open source software using the BSD license.

7-Zip Container Header:
``` C
 Byte _ver_major;  // currently 2
 Byte _ver_minor;  // currently 0
 Byte _level;      // 10..49
```
- this header holds some information about the version, which was used for
  creating that 7-Zip container data
- _ver_major should contain the major release of Lizard
- _ver_minor should contain the major release of Lizard
- _level should contain the level, the data is packed with

Algorithm author: Przemyslaw Skibinski
- Homepage: https://github.com/inikep/lizard
- Source:   https://github.com/inikep/lizard

Codec plugin author: Tino Reichardt
- Homepage: https://mcmilk.de/projects/7-Zip-zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd

Modes:
- threading is supported through skippable frame id 0x184D2A50U
- all compression levels of v1.0 are supported, which means:
  1. Level 10..19
   - fastLZ4, designed to give better decompression speed than LZ4 i.e. over 2000 MB/s
  2. Level 20..29
   - LIZv1, designed to give better ratio than LZ4 keeping 75% decompression speed
  3. Level 30..39
   - fastLZ4 + Huffman, add Huffman coding to fastLZ4
  4. Level 40..49
   - LIZv1 + Huffman, give the best ratio
   - comparable to zlib and low levels of zstd/brotli
   - but also decompression speed of 1000 MB/s
- the codec is used as archiv handler also, see LizardHandler.cpp
  - this handler is does not use any additional headers, it supports the plain lizarv v1.0 format
- future formats of this algorithm will not follow
- one ID should be okay for this codec

Versions:
The 7-Zip Lizard codec will be kept in sync with the current releases of Lizard.

Commit message:

Add comments suggested by Igor Pavlov to Methods-Extern.md - header is for informational purposes only - fix brotli levels: 0..11 instead of 1..11

DOC/Methods-Extern.md, after:

7-Zip external method IDs, that are not included to 7-Zip
---------------------------------------------------------


History of this document
------------------------

- see https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd/commits/master/DOC/Methods-Extern.md


Overview of defined ID ranges
-----------------------------

ID       | Codec, Author                | 7-Zip Plugin Author
---------|------------------------------|----------------------
F7 0x xx | reserved                     |
F7 10 xx | LZHAM, Rich Geldreich        | Rich Geldreich
F7 11 01 | ZStandard, Yann Collet       | Tino Reichardt
F7 11 02 | Brotli, Google               | Tino Reichardt
F7 11 04 | LZ4, Yann Collet             | Tino Reichardt
F7 11 05 | LZ5, Przemyslaw Skibinski    | Tino Reichardt
F7 11 06 | Lizard, Przemyslaw Skibinski | Tino Reichardt


Range F7 10 xx - LZHAM
-----------------------

Description:
Lossless is a data compression codec with LZMA-like ratios but 1.5x-8x faster
decompression speed.

License:
LZHAM library is provided as open source software using the MIT license.

7-Zip Container Header:
``` C
 Byte _ver;
 Byte _dict_size;
 Byte _level;
 Byte _flags;
 Byte _reserved[1];
```

Algorithm author: Rich Geldreich
- Homepage: https://github.com/richgel999/lzham_codec
- Source:   https://github.com/richgel999/lzham_codec

Codec plugin author: Rich Geldreich
- Homepage: http://richg42.blogspot.com/2015/11/lzham-custom-codec-plugin-for-7-zip.html
- Source:   https://github.com/richgel999/lzham_codec_devel


Range F7 11 01, ZStandard
-------------------------

Description:
Zstandard is a real-time compression algorithm, providing high compression
ratios. It offers a very wide range of compression / speed trade-off, while
being backed by a very fast decoder.

License:
Zstandard library is provided as open source software using the BSD license.

7-Zip Container Header:

This header is for informational purposes only. It's not mandatory for
decompressing the data.
``` C
 Byte _ver_major; // currently 1
 Byte _ver_minor; // currently 2
 Byte _level;     // currently 1..22
 Byte _reserved[2];
```
- this header holds some information about the version, which was
  used for creating that 7-Zip container data
- _ver_major should contain the major release of zstd
- _ver_minor should contain the major release of zstd
- _level should contain the level, the data is packed with
- the other two bytes should be set to zero currently and are
  reserved for future use

Algorithm author: Yann Collet
- Homepage: https://facebook.github.io/zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/facebook/zstd

Codec plugin author: Tino Reichardt
- Homepage: https://mcmilk.de/projects/7-Zip-zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd

Modes:
- threading is supported through skippable frame id 0x184D2A50U
- all levels are supported (1..22)
- future versions of zstd will support multithreading out of the box
  - this new format is fully compatible with the one within this codec
- the codec is used as archiv handler also, see ZstdHandler.cpp
  - this handler is does not use any additional headers, it supports the plain
    zstd v1.0 format
  - when compiled with ZSTD_LEGACY_SUPPORT, then support is increased to these
    addtional version numbers of zstd: v0.1 up v0.7
- future formats of this algorithm will be fully compatible with release v1.0
  of ZStandard (ZStandard 0.8 == ZStandard 1.0)
- one ID should be okay for this codec

Versions:
The 7-Zip codec will be kept in sync with the current releases of ZStandard.


Range F7 11 02, Brotli
----------------------

Description:
Brotli is a generic-purpose lossless compression algorithm that compresses
data using a combination of a modern variant of the LZ77 algorithm, Huffman
coding and 2nd order context modeling, with a compression ratio comparable to
the best currently available general-purpose compression methods. It is
similar in speed with deflate but offers more dense compression.

License:
The Brotli library is provided as open source software using the MIT license.

7-Zip Container Header (3 bytes):

This header is for informational purposes only. It's not mandatory for
decompressing the data.
``` C
 Byte _ver_major; // currently 0
 Byte _ver_minor; // currently 6
 Byte _level;     // currently 0..11 (Brotli quality)
```
- this header holds some information about the version, which was
  used for creating that 7-Zip container data
- _ver_major should contain the major release of brotli
- _ver_minor should contain the major release of brotli
- _level should contain the level, the data is packed with

Algorithm author: Google Staff
- Homepage: https://brotli.org/
- Source:   https://github.com/google/brotli

Codec plugin author: Tino Reichardt
- Homepage: https://mcmilk.de/projects/7-Zip-zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd

Modes:
- threading is supported through skippable frame id 0x184D2A50U
- all levels are supported (1..11)
- one ID should be okay for this codec

Versions:
The 7-Zip codec will be kept in sync with the current releases of Brotli.


Range F7 11 04, LZ4
-------------------

Description:
LZ4 is lossless compression algorithm, providing compression speed at 400 MB/s
per core (0.16 Bytes/cycle). It features an extremely fast decoder, with speed
in multiple GB/s per core (0.71 Bytes/cycle). A high compression derivative,
called LZ4_HC, is available, trading customizable CPU time for compression
ratio.

License:
LZ4 library is provided as open source software using the BSD license.

7-Zip Container Header:

This header is for informational purposes only. It's not mandatory for
decompressing the data.
``` C
 Byte _ver_major;  // currently 1
 Byte _ver_minor;  // currently 7
 Byte _level;      // 1..12
 Byte _reserved[2];
```
- this header holds some information about the version, which was
  used for creating that 7-Zip container data
- _ver_major should contain the major release of LZ4
- _ver_minor should contain the major release of LZ4
- _level should contain the level, the data is packed with
- the other two bytes should be set to zero currently and are
  reserved for future use

Algorithm author: Yann Collet
- Homepage: https://lz4.github.io/lz4/
- Source:   https://github.com/lz4/lz4

Codec plugin author: Tino Reichardt
- Homepage: https://mcmilk.de/projects/7-Zip-zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd

Modes:
- threading is supported through skippable frame id 0x184D2A50U
- all levels of LZ4 v1.7.4 are supported (1..16)
- the codec is used as archiv handler also, see Lz4Handler.cpp
  - this handler is does not use any additional headers
  - it supports the plain LZ4 v1.7.4 format (this covers all current lz4
    implemetations)
- future formats of this algorithm should be fully compatible with current
  release
- one ID should be okay for this codec

Versions:
The 7-Zip codec will be kept in sync with the current releases of LZ4.


Range F7 11 05, LZ5
-------------------

Description:
LZ5 is a modification of LZ4 which gives a better ratio at cost of slower
compression and decompression.

License:
LZ5 library is provided as open source software using the BSD license.

7-Zip Container Header:

This header is for informational purposes only. It's not mandatory for
decompressing the data.
``` C
 Byte _ver_major;  // currently 1
 Byte _ver_minor;  // currently 5
 Byte _level;      // 1..15
 Byte _reserved[2];
```
- this header holds some information about the version, which was used for
  creating that 7-Zip container data
- _ver_major should contain the major release of LZ5
- _ver_minor should contain the major release of LZ5
- _level should contain the level, the data is packed with
- the other two bytes should be set to zero currently and are reserved for
  future use

Algorithm author: Przemyslaw Skibinski
- Homepage: https://github.com/inikep/lz5
- Source:   https://github.com/inikep/lz5

Codec plugin author: Tino Reichardt
- Homepage: https://mcmilk.de/projects/7-Zip-zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd

Modes:
- threading is supported through skippable frame id 0x184D2A50U
- all levels of v1.5 are supported, which means: 1..15
- the codec is used as archiv handler also, see Lz5Handler.cpp
  - this handler is does not use any additional headers, it supports the plain
    lz5 v1.5 format
- future formats of this algorithm will not follow
- one ID should be okay for this codec

Versions:
The 7-Zip LZ5 codec will be frozen to v1.5 of this codec. No updates are planned.

Range F7 11 06, Lizard
----------------------

Description:
Lizard is an efficient compressor with very fast decompression. It achieves
compression ratio that is comparable to zip/zlib and zstd/brotli (at low and
medium compression levels) at decompression speed of 1000 MB/s and faster.

License:
Lizard library is provided as open source software using the BSD license.

7-Zip Container Header:

This header is for informational purposes only. It's not mandatory for
decompressing the data.
``` C
``` C
 Byte _ver_major;  // currently 2
 Byte _ver_minor;  // currently 0
 Byte _level;      // 10..49
```
- this header holds some information about the version, which was used for
  creating that 7-Zip container data
- _ver_major should contain the major release of Lizard
- _ver_minor should contain the major release of Lizard
- _level should contain the level, the data is packed with

Algorithm author: Przemyslaw Skibinski
- Homepage: https://github.com/inikep/lizard
- Source:   https://github.com/inikep/lizard

Codec plugin author: Tino Reichardt
- Homepage: https://mcmilk.de/projects/7-Zip-zstd/
- Source:   https://github.com/mcmilk/7-Zip-zstd

Modes:
- threading is supported through skippable frame id 0x184D2A50U
- all compression levels of v1.0 are supported, which means:
  1. Level 10..19
   - fastLZ4, designed to give better decompression speed than LZ4 i.e. over 2000 MB/s
  2. Level 20..29
   - LIZv1, designed to give better ratio than LZ4 keeping 75% decompression speed
  3. Level 30..39
   - fastLZ4 + Huffman, add Huffman coding to fastLZ4
  4. Level 40..49
   - LIZv1 + Huffman, give the best ratio
   - comparable to zlib and low levels of zstd/brotli
   - but also decompression speed of 1000 MB/s
- the codec is used as archiv handler also, see LizardHandler.cpp
  - this handler is does not use any additional headers, it supports the plain lizarv v1.0 format
- future formats of this algorithm will not follow
- one ID should be okay for this codec

Versions:
The 7-Zip Lizard codec will be kept in sync with the current releases of Lizard.
